---
title: Uh Oh?
slug: uh-oh
description: Today I learned a bunch of biblical quotes.
<!--- authors:
  - name: David Windham
    title: Something Else
    url: https://davidawindham.com
    image_url: https://davidawindham.com/wp-content/themes/daw/img/opengraph_image.jpg -->
tags: [religion, people, politics]
image: https://davidawindham.com/wp-content/themes/daw/img/opengraph_image.jpg
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

Today I learned a bunch of biblical quotes.

<!-- truncate -->

<video src="https://davidawindham.com/media/mercy_mr_president.mp4" width="100%" controls="controls">
</video>
<div style={{display: 'flex',  justifyContent:'center', alignItems:'center', fontSize:'small', marginBottom:'20px'}}>National Prayer Service National Cathedral - January 21st, 2025</div>

I was reading the January 20th post from Ran Prieur[^1] in my feed reader when I clicked the link with the quotes but I went back and wrote them down today since ole' dumpy is now demanding an apology[^2] to the bishop who asked him to have mercy on the needy and displaced[^3]. 

Fair game then. WWJD 🧔🏽? ...Anyone up for some eschatological debate?


**leader of a kingdom**  
"The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon earth, which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces." - Daniel. 7:23

**arrogant boastful speeches**  
"I could hear his boastful speech..." - Daniel 7:8, Revelation 13:5

**making Threats against people**  
"...had a mouth like that of a lion." - Revelation 13:2, Daniel. 7:4

**obsessed with winning**  
"...and he was bent on conquering." - Revelation 6:2

**7 Trump Towers with 10 antennas**  
"And I saw a beast coming out of the sea with ten horns and seven heads"- Revelation 13:1, Ch. 17

**lots of 'followers'**  
"The whole world was filled with wonder and followed the beast." - Revelation. 13:3

**political outsider with comtemptous personality**  
"... a despicable person will arise... a man of contempt... to whom the royal honor has not been rightfully conferred. He will slip in when least expected and will seize the kingdom through flattery and intrigue." - Daniel 11:21

**speaks of great and greater things**  
"He had a mouth that spoke great things, and that seemed greater than its companions..." - Daniel 7:20

**collusion with deception**  
"After an alliance is made with him he will practice deception, and he will go up and gain power with a small force of people." - Daniel 11:23

**displays of power**  
"The arise in power of the lawless one will be in accordance with how Satan works. He will use all sorts of displays of power through signs and wonders that serve the lie." - 2 Thess. 2:9

**make friends rich**  
"Then he will distribute among his followers the plunder and wealth of the rich—something his predecessors had never done." - Daniel 11:24

**change the laws**  
"He will try to change the set times and the laws." - Dan. 7:25

**fake news**  
"He will cause deceit to prosper, and he will consider himself superior... He will use every kind of evil deception to fool those on their way to destruction, because they refuse to love and accept the truth that would save them." - Daniel 8:25, 2 Thess 2:10

**reward the loyal**  
"He will greatly honor those who acknowledge him. He will make them rulers over many people and will sell them land at a price." - Daniel 11:39b

**using the lord's name in vain**  
"And there was given to him a mouth speaking of ‘great things’ and blasphemous words... and he opened his mouth saying terrible things and blasphemed the name of God." - Revelation 13:5-6

**maga revival**  
"For false Christs and false prophets will arise and appear to perform ‘great’ signs and wonders so as to lead astray, if possible, God’s own people. He will use every kind of evil deception to fool those on their way to destruction..." - Matt. 24:24, 2nd Thess 2:10

**southern border**  
"He will stir up his strength and courage against the king of the South..." - Daniel 11:25

**birthright citizenship**  
"He will set himself against the people... doing much damage before continuing his journey." - Daniel 11:28

**barr mueller reports**  
"But reports will trouble him from the east and north, and he will set out in a tremendous rage to destroy and wipe out many." - Daniel 11:44

**assasination attempt**  
"And I saw one of his heads that was wounded as if fatal, but it was healed and the world was amazed." - Revelation 13:3

**convince christians**  
"And then I saw a second beast come from the Earth who looked like a lamb but spoke like a dragon... and it deceived the inhabitants of the Earth..." - Revelation 13:11–12

**covid-19**  
"...and many people died from the waters that had become bitter" - Revelation 8:10

**queries for 'weird dreams' up 400%**  
"‘In the last days, God says, I will pour out my Spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams." - Acts 2:17

**inflation**  
"Two pounds of wheat for a day’s wages, and six pounds of barley for a day’s wages, and do not damage the oil!" - Revelation 6:6

**upside-down bible**  
"His armed forces will rise up to desecrate the area surrounding the temple, so that they can set up the abomination that leaves the area empty." - Daniel 11:29-33

**"the greatest for the Jews"**  
"And he will exalt himself above all... so that he sets himself up in God’s own temple in Israel, proclaiming himself to be God." - 2nd Thess 2:4, Rev 17

**attempt to stay in power**  
"But then the court will convene, and all his power will be taken away." - Daniel 7:26

**walls and money**
"He will show no regard for the gods of his ancestors or for the one desired by women, nor will he regard any god, but will exalt himself above them all. Instead of them, he will honor a god no one will have heard of before: the god of fortresses. And he will worship this god with a lot of gold and silver."- Daniel 11:37-38

**maga hats**  
"And they received a mark on their right hand or on their foreheads..." - Revelation 13

**onward**  
"With flattery he will corrupt those who have violated the covenant, but the people who know their God will firmly resist him." - Daniel 11:32

**"I am the chosen one"** - to reporters while looking to the sky. 

Coulda been the reason he didn't place his hand on the Lincoln Bible?[^4]

<div><br/><br/></div>

---

[^1]: Ran Prieur - http://ranprieur.com
[^2]: _Trump demands an apology from bishop who asked him to 'have mercy' - https://apnews.com/article/trump-inaugural-prayer-service-washington-national-cathedral-interfaith-a95b36f962be93c8647cc5144266da11
[^3]: _May I ask you to have mercy Mr. President_ - National Prayer Service at Washington's National Cathedral - https://www.c-span.org/clip/white-house-event/may-i-ask-you-to-have-mercy-mr-president/5150344
[^4]: Lincoln Bible - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lincoln_Bible

